Didi/scaffoldings (#885)
telerik/maui-docs: installation/vs-code-integration/scaffoldings.md

---

> title: Telerik UI for .NET MAUI Code Scaffoldings

Reviewer: I suggest using a title that starts with the keyword (Scaffold or scaffolding) and also sticking with the main form without adding "s". Also try to put the emphasis on the action, on the things you can achieve with the feature, e.g. you can scaffold projects or apps.
Alternatively, you can use "Scaffolding MAUI Apps".
```suggestion
title: Scaffolding MAUI Projects
```

page_title: Telerik UI for .NET MAUI Code Scaffoldings - Visual Studio Code Scaffoldings
description: Learn how to add predefined screens in your application using the Telerik .NET MAUI Visual Studio Code Scaffoldings.
slug: maui-vs-code-scaffoldings
position: 1
tags: maui, dotnet maui, item templates, scaffoldings, predefined pages, screens, visual studio code
---

> # .NET MAUI Scaffoldings for Visual Studio Code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Scaffolding MAUI Projects in VS Code
```

> The Telerik UI for .NET MAUI Visual Studio Code extension provides scaffoldings for increased developer productivity. The scaffoldings allow you to quickly add predefined pages with controls to your application and define the parameters of the controls through an UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Telerik UI for .NET MAUI Visual Studio Code extension lets you scaffold a project and increase your productivity. The scaffoldings allow you to quickly add predefined pages with controls to your application and define the parameters of the controls through an UI.
```

## Get the Extension

To use the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI Scaffoldings, install the `Telerik UI for .NET MAUI Productivity Tools` extension for Visual Studio Code. You can get the extension from:

* <a href="https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=TelerikInc.telerik-maui-productivity-tools" target="_blank">The Visual Studio Marketplace.</a>

> * The **Extensions** tab in Visual Studio Code - search for `Telerik UI for .NET MAUI Productivity Tools`, select the extension, and then click `Install`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The **Extensions** tab in Visual Studio Code&mdash;search for `Telerik UI for .NET MAUI Productivity Tools`, select the extension, and then click **Install**.
```

## Add The Scaffolding Page to Your App

> Here are the steps you need to follow to add the desired screen to your application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add the desired screen to your MAUI application:
```

1. Open the project in Visual Studio Code.

> 1. Right-click on the name of the `.csproj` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Right-click the name of the `.csproj` file.
```

> 1. From the popup menu select the `New Telerik UI for .NET MAUI Project Item Generator`.

Reviewer: Menus and their items must be rendered in bold.
```suggestion
1. From the popup menu, select **New Telerik UI for .NET MAUI Project Item Generator**.
```

![.NET MAUI Scaffolding dialog](images/scaffolding-vscode-dialog.png)

1. From the UI form, select the desired page and set the available parameters.
![.NET MAUI Scaffolding dialog](images/scaffolding-vscode-options.png)

> 1. The page will be added to the `Pages` folder of the application. if one does not exist, it will be created. Every page has a `ViewModel`, so the `ViewModel` is added to the `ViewModels` folder. if one does not exist, it will be created. The image shows the `Products` screen after adding to the project.

Reviewer: This isn't a step in the procedure as it doesn't require action.
```suggestion
As a result, the VS code extension does the following:
* Adds the page to the `Pages` folder of the application. If the folder does not exist, it will be created. 
* Adds a `ViewModel` for the created page to the `ViewModels` folder. If the folder does not exist, it will be created.

The next image shows the file structure created for the `Products` screen:
```

![.NET MAUI Scaffolding result](images/scaffolding-vscode-result.png)

> 1. To display the screen in your application you need to specify the page namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Displaying a Scaffolded Screen in Your App

To show a newly scaffolded page in your MAUI app, specify the page's namespace.
```
